Welcome to ‘Platform and Tools’.
After watching this video, you will be able to:
Understand it’s Ok to use different tools for CI/CD,
and identify some common tools for CI/CD.
There are lots of tools your pipelines can use even within the same company.
Different line of business applications (or LOBs) within a single organization being run
by different teams,
might be using different tools, and it doesn’t matter that they use different tools.
So, their source code management systems, their build systems, their continuous integration
systems, their repositories, and so on, might be running on different tools.
Maybe there’s Jenkins, there’s Travis, there’s Nexus and there’s JFrog Artifactory,
but the specific tool being used isn’t important.
What matters is that they’re using a tool to automate these processes instead of doing
them manually.
In fact, there's a plethora of tools for CI/CD you can choose from.
For example, if you look at just the ‘CI’ box in the ‘Build’ column of this diagram
of pipeline tools,
you can see Team City, Jenkins, Travis CI, Bamboo, Codeship, Snap, and Go, to name
a few.
And you will find that most of the top ones all seem similar and have similar ways of
working and similar concepts.
So, if you try out a tool, and decide you don't like it, you can just keep trying
new ones until you find a tool that you like to use.
Let’s have a brief overview of some of the common tools for CI/CD.
Jenkins is CI/CD software that is installed on a server where the central build will take
place.
It is one of the oldest, most popular, and most complex of all the CI/CD tools.
Circle CI is a CI/CD platform that can be used to implement DevOps practices.
It performs deployments for Continuous Delivery and you define workflows inside a ‘circle.yaml’
file.
Travis CI is a hosted CI service that helps developers build and test software projects
hosted on GitHub and Bitbucket.
Travis CI was the first CI service to provide free services to open-source projects.
It also performs deployments for Continuous Delivery and you define a workflow inside
a ‘. travis.yaml’ file.
GitHub Actions is a CI/CD platform that enables you to automate your build, test, and deploy
GitHub workflows. Unlike other tools, it only works with GitHub.
In this video, you learned that
different line of business applications within the same organization may have many teams
each using different tools.
It’s OK to use different tools for CI/CD,
what’s important is that the processes are being automated instead of being done manually,
and there are a lots of tools out there for CI/CD and you can keep trying new ones
until you find one that you like to use.